# PlantLeafDiseasePrediction
These days, Computerized imaging innovation needs in the farming field. It can help agriculturists to create early discovery and classification of leaf plant disease. In the agribusiness field, there are a few sorts of the infection that can attack and appear through the leaf. In case the disease isn't identified early, it can be provide a few influences to the sum and quality of the generation. Leaf plant disease can be identified and classified utilizing advanced image processing. Leaves of the plant are utilized to decide the type of diseases that contaminates the crops. Agriculturists can make early choices which are they can analyze the leaf plant infection. Advanced Image processing could be a quick technique, consistent and more exact procedure for leaf plant malady discovery. In this paper, we review leaf plant disease detection and classification using image processing methods from different authors that help agriculturists in the agriculture field. It contains a few stages such as image acquisition, image processing, segmentation, feature extraction, and classification.
# Existing System
So far we are having system which is build by using KNN classifier with weighted parzen window method to preprocess the images and with this the maximum achievable accuracy is 90% for just 10 categories of plant diseases and another system built by using K-Means clustering which is giving maximum correlation or homogeneity as 83.2% . The dis anvantage of existed system is it wont work accurately for more than 10 categories and accuracy also bit lower.
# Proposed Systeem
To resolve the dis advantage of existing system in this project we are taking 15 categories and trying to improve the validation accuracy model implementation explained below:
In this Project we took the data set from kaggle here I am providing link of dataset https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/emmarex/plantdisease after downloading the data we are extracting the file. In this data set we are having 15 different categories of plant diseases corresponding to Tomato and Potato plants we are iterating through each and every image present in all the 15 folders and by taking help of computer vision (cv2) library we are resizing all the images to 84*84*3 size here 3 represents 3 channels and 84*84* is the height and width of the Image and we are storing all the images information in the form of array in data variable image category we are storing in label array for better understanding the data we are displaying images with their category name randomly by taking help of matplotlib and seaborn libraries then next we are normalizing all images pixel values to lower scale then next we are constructing VGG19 advanced convolution neural network after deviding data into training and test set we are training the model and finally we achieved validation accuracy of 91.7% on the validation data for 15 different categories this system will be efficiently work out to detect plant leaf disease in tomato and potato.
